Bakso is an extremely popular Indonesian meal. It's usually made out of beef or any meat you like and serve with noodles. Bakso are pretty easy to make, you only need a few ingredients to make the actual balls. Then, you just drop them in boiling water or stock to cook them, which only takes a couple of minutes or so. It is also not uncommon to fry Bakso, but if you are planning to do that, I would suggest going smaller in size.


#Ingredients

Beef Broth for Bakso (Soup)
▢ 4 beef bones (weighing about 700 g (roughly 1.5 lb))
▢ 2 litres water
▢ 3 cloves garlic sliced
▢ 5 cm ginger, sliced
▢ 1 stalk celery
▢ 2 spring onions scallions, chopped in three piece
▢ 1 star anise petal
▢ 1 very small cinnamon stick
▢ ½ sugar
▢ ½ white pepper
▢ 1 tsp salt

Bakso
▢ 500 g lean minced beef (5% fat)
▢ 100 g cornflour (cornstarch in the US)
▢ 3 cloves garlic minced/pounded
▢ 1 small handful fresh coriander leaves and stalks cilantro
▢ 1 tsp salt
▢ ½ ground white pepper
▢ ½ baking powder   

To Serve
▢ Noodles of your choice amount, see explanation above
▢ 4 small handfuls beansprouts
▢ 1 large handful of any greens like pak choi or spinach
▢ sambal or chilli paste of your choice
▢ sliced up red chillies in dark soy sauce as in the image
▢ crispy shallots homemade or shop bought click to read more


#Instructions

Beef Broth
1.Place everything in a large saucepan and bring to boil.
2.Lower heat and simmer for 3 hours, removing any scum that surfaces.
3.At the end of the cooking time, strain into a clean saucepan, and measure the amount. You need at least 1 litre of broth (4 cups). Add some water 4.if you need to.
5.Set aside until needed to cook the bakso and the noodles.

Bakso
1.Place all the ingredients in a food processor and blend for 1 whole minute, until it’s all thoroughly mixed and you have a smooth mixture.
2.Tip the meat paste into a bowl. If you are not ready to cook them yet, cover with clingfilm and place in the fridge until needed.
3.When ready to cook, do a taste test first. Microwave a pinch of the meat paste for about 30 seconds, then taste it. Add more salt if needed.
4.Let’s make some balls! Scoop a small amount of the meatball paste in your hand, clench your fist and push the paste between the “hole” made by your thumb and forefinger (see images and video).
5.Use a teaspoon to scoop the ball off your hand.
6.Keep doing this until all the meatball paste has been used up. Rinse your hands regularly to keep the balls from sticking.
7.At this stage, you could roll them between your palms to create more rounded and smooth meatballs, if you like. Again, don’t forget to dip your hands in the bowl of cold water to keep the paste from sticking.
8.Bring a pot of water or the beef broth to boil.
9.Lower the heat right down and slowly, slide the meatballs into the simmering water. You want them to form roughly a single layer, don’t overfill the pot, so you may have to do this in 2 batches.
10.Increase the heat to medium high and keep a close eye on the meatballs.
11.As soon as the water starts to boil, lower the heat down to medium-low or low and simmer for 3 minutes. This should be enough time for the balls to cook. Don’t let the water come to a rolling boil as the meatballs might fall apart. The balls should also float to the surface when they are done.
12.When they are done, scoop out with a skimmer or slotted spoon and set aside.
